# Shapes-Game-CS171
Introduction to my project
For my CS171 project I picked a game based on shapes and colours. My plan for the project was to have a game that prompted users with a range of different shapes of all different sizes and colours. The user would then be prompted to select all the shapes matching the colour. With each shape selected correctly the user would be given 1 point, this would continue until all the shapes matching the prompt were selected or until a wrong shape or colour was selected. The game would then reset. I chose this as it seemed like a complex game to try and integrate into processing. I believed that I would be able to use our previous labs to try and make it possible.

What does my project do?
The whole point of the game is the match the shapes and colours to the prompt. Once the prompt appeared on the screen the user would then have to go through the shapes (ranging in colours and sizes) and click on the ones that matched the prompt. With every correct one clicked; their score would increase by one. If all the shapes were clicked on, the screen would refresh, and more randomized shapes would appear. This would ensure that the game continued, and the user wasn’t left staring at a blank canvas. If the user failed to click on a shape matching the prompt, the game would end capping their score at the amount it was last one, this would be their total score. This gave users the incentive to continue playing to increase their top score.

How does my project work?
When I began developing this game, I ran into multiple issues and bugs. The biggest being how to make this game actually match my proposal. I ran into numerous problems. I was unsure as to how I could have a game that worked in the way in which my proposal described so I decided to develop a slight variant of that game. Instead of many randomised shapes appearing on the screen, I had a fixed number of shapes appear in completely randomised colours. A prompt then appeared asking the user to select a random shape, this prompt also matched the colour of the shape. My plan before I began developing this was to Draw 4 different shapes, each shape a random colour. A prompt that asked the user to click a certain shape matching the colour. A way in which for the user to click on the shape and receive feedback depending on the outcome, if correct – a win message, if incorrect – a message saying wrong and to reset the game

How I developed my program and the problems I had to solve
My first thought when I began development was to go through each of our labs to see what I could use for my game to work. I found the drum lab which we used in one of our weekly labs as it had 4 circles on the screen at the same time. I then reprogrammed this so that the 4 circles were now 4 unique shapes. I chose a circle, square, triangle, and rectangle as I felt these were the most common and recognisable shapes. Once I had the shapes ready, I then created a bunch of new floats that were randomised between 0 and 255 (the decimal code for RGB). I made 3 random floats for each colour and then set the fill of these shapes to these floats. This allowed the shapes to be drawn in completely random colours.

I now had a canvas with 4 different shapes in 4 completely random colours. Next, I wanted to add a prompt for the user to follow, just like in my original proposal. I created 4 if statements, I did this so that I could pair the colour of this prompt with the colour of the desired shape. For this to work, I needed a way for the code to know which shape was being selected in the randomised prompt. To solve this, I made an array and a for loop to randomly select one of the strings in the array, this array had 4 strings in it, theses strings matched the names of the shapes, I then added the original draw functions for the shapes into if statements to see which shape matched the random String. Once I had this working the prompt was now asking for a specific shape and the colour of the shape was now the same colour as the prompt. Next, I needed a way for the user to click on the shape that matched the prompt. To do this, I added a new mousePressed function that registered when each shape was clicked. If the shape clicked matched the prompt, a new message would appear on the screen saying, “You win”, if the shape clicked didn’t match the prompt “You Lose” would appear on the screen.

I now had my base game working, however there were multiple bugs and dead time in the game. The biggest “bug” I had was that when a user would click the wrong shape, the lose message would appear as planned but it was overlapping the original prompt. To solve this, I wanted to one of two things, either move the lose to a different spot on the canvas or just have the original prompt disappear. To do this, I had to change the random shape array to a blank space, this solved my issue as there were no longer two messages overlapping.

Another bug was that when a user lost, the game would continue running and the user would still be able to click on the shapes. The array solution above worked for this but not entirely, when I implemented the array modification the screen was left on a dead screen saying that they lost and not offering a way in which they could replay or close the program. Originally, I wanted to try find a way to reset the program so that the user could try again but this proved to be difficult, an easier solution was to add a keyPressed function that allowed the user to close the program after they lost. To do this I added a collection of if statements into the original lose if statement that gave the option to press SPACEBAR which would in fact close the screen and end the program.
